Introduction
Algorithms - Textual representation of flow of logic.
Implementation- The logic put into code using Programming Language.

Operations-
1)Traversing- Visiting an element.
2) Searching- Searching a particular element in given ds. DS can be linked list or arrays or others.
3)Inserting
4)Deleting
5)Sorting-Arranging elements either in ascending or descending order.
6)Merging-Combining into single

Important Ds:- 
Linear DS
1)Arrays - Number of elements are known.
2)Stacks - LIFO
3)Queues- - FIFO
4)Linked Lists - Number of elements are Unknown.
Non- Linear DS
5)Trees
6)Graphs

Data Structure :- A data structure is a specialized format for organizing, processing, retrieving and storing data. 

Arrays :- An arrays is a finite set of homogeneous elements stored in contiguous memory locations.

Homogeneous - same type of elements.

It is highly useful when we want to store multiple values belonging too same type.

2d arrays - A double dimensional Array is a collection of rows and column.

Stack :--
A stack is a ds that follows the principle oof LIFO.
Inserting an element in stack is referred to as pushing.
Deleting an element from a stack is known as popping.
The new element is inserted at the top and while deleting the element operation has to be done from top only.

Stacks : -  
5        Insertion is in the following order
4          where 0-5 is index value
3
2
1
0

top concept in stack :- if the stack is emty then top will be -1 and if only one value then top =0 

In above case for insertion:--
-1-Initial no value
0 - first
1
2
3
4
5
Now deletion if there then,
after first rem 
4
3
2
1
0
-1--- Empty


Queues :- Queues is a ds that follows the principle of FIFO.
There are two elements front and rear in this.
An element is removed from front and an element is inserted from rear.
Queues eg in real life - if we there is queue of line in mc donalds then first person is the only one to get the food and to be removed from the queue.

Queues strucure:-
0,1,2,3,4

Initially both the element front and rear will be -1 if there is no element present.

Now for very first insertion both front and rear will increment by 1.

After that it will be only follow the principle  if insertion is there then oonly rear inc by 1 and front remain as it is like prev value.

Operation of front and rear in queue :-
Insertion
front rear
-1    -1
0      0
0      1
0      2
0      3
Deletion:-
front rear coont-n
front rear
0      3   -- from prev table initially
1      3   -- now froont inc and rear remain same
2      3
3      3

Linked list :--  Linked List consists of Nodes . It is of Two parts :-
1)data part - In this , data is stored.
2)link part- In this , address of next node is to be stored.

Always, Last part nodes link is NULL because no next node will be there at last node so it the link part will be null.

Circular Linked List :- It is same as Linked List ,the only difference is that the last node link part contains the address of first node.

In simple words, the last node is connected with first node.

Doubly linked list :- It consists of three parts:-
1)data part - same function used to store data.
2)prev part - contains address of prev node.
3)link part - contains address of next node.

For very first node , the prev part is NULL.
and for very last node, the link part is NULL.

Note :- Node are stored in scattered memoory location while arrays are stored in contiguous memory locations.

Non Linear ds- 

Trees- Here the elements are not stored in linear manner but the elements are stored in heirarchial structural manner.

Each element of tree is called Node.

The very first element or node which is present at top is known as super parent node.

Leaf Nodes or Terminal Nodes  - The node which does not have any child is called leaf node.


Binary Tree- A binary tree is a tree where a parent can have maximum two child nodes. In simple words , it can either have two child nodes or one.

Grpah :- 

It is non-linear ds.

Here each elements or nodes is called vertices.

Divided into:-
1)Undirected Graph :- Here no path is mentioned.
2)Directed Graph :- Here path is shown.

Edges - An edge is the connection b/w two nodes of the network.
An edge of a directed graph has oonly a unidirectional path.


Computer Memory - They are used to store data.
Divided into two :--
1)Primary Memory 2)Secondary Memory

1)Primary Memory - Main Memeory
Access at lightening speed
Quite Costly
Much less than secondary memory


2) Secondary Memory :-Mass Storage Memory
Stores Volyminous data
Much Slower
Much Cheaper.

Primary Memory - Now divide into :-
RAM                      ROM
1)Temp Mem.            1)Perm Memmory
2)Data lost if power   2) Data not lost if power  
 supply is lost           is lost.
